# MLTC-patient trajectory
In this study, 
* we explored techniques to optimise the interpretability of clusters of LTCs by applying existing topic modelling techniques to patients with MLTC from the UK Biobank, to discover meaningful connections between long-term conditions.
* Aim to quantify the association of each individual with each of the topics generated by LDA.

* Using association strength based on the patients medical history, we observe the patients trajectory between the clusters, also potentially discovering risk indicators that we can in turn use to optimise the prediction of a patient’s trajectory.


### Folder Structure

MLTC

    Data - Contains the datasets used and produced in the research.

    Images - Contains the images used in the research.

    notebooks - Contains the code used in the research.

    requirements.txt - Python package dependencies for this research.


### To run the the Analysis

* First install all the dependencies of python using pip. (Given in requirements.txt)
* Structure the folders as per the folder structure mentioned above.
* Run the note books.
    Note
    * BLOCK 3 OF 'LDA_Association_Str.ipynb' does not run in one go. Patient data needs to be divided into multiple parts for easy processing. - Instruction written in the code block.

    * Block 3 produces a dataset with all the details of the patient. It is already stored with the name - 'Results.csv'



### Notebooks description

1: LDA_Association_Str.ipynb

Contains the code used to produced LDA topic modeling and for creating association metric.

2: trajectory_modelling.ipynb

Contains the code to visualize and process the patients trajectory.


### Dataset Generated

ltc_events_all_patients_ukbb45840.tsv - UK Biobank data.

ltc_matrix_binary_mm4.tsv - Transformed UK Biobank binary data.
<br><br>
Results.csv - Contain patient details of their association strength with each of the clusters at the ned of their disease history.

final.csv - Contains normal dominance of each disease within the LDA clusters along with relative weight of each diseases as decribed in the study.

final_x_idf.csv - Contains the association strength calculated using our association metric for each disease.

corr_table.csv - Contains correlation data between 203 LTCs.

lda_tuning_results.csv - Contains the result form hyperparameter tuning.